# Reasons for Hope Feb 6, 2021: Mind-blowing: transparent wood!
5x more energy efficient than glass. Plus it's also just really sci-fi cool. 

Flights 2.4% of emissions




# Transport

- Hydrogen-powered flight ZeroAvia https://flip.it/bUyWkE 
  
> "ZeroAvia has the only approach that can scale to large aircraft, and the firm has already shown its technology works at a small scale, he said. In September, ZeroAvia said it completed the first flight of a commercial-grade aircraft powered by hydrogen fuel cells."

> "If you're working with big planes, batteries are out, Miftakhov said. They're simply too heavy. At the scale Miftakhov is targeting — a 20-seat aircraft that can go 500 miles on one fill — "they would weigh significantly more than the aircraft," he said. (Some experts say batteries are suitable for small fixed-wing planes.) 
Biofuels and synthetic fuels, on the other hand, are just "not as efficient" and come with high maintenance costs, Miftakhov added.
That leaves hydrogen."

Rolls-Royce tests 100% sustainable aviation fuel in small jet engine
https://flip.it/k0tYfS
> "Sustainable Aviation Fuel is a name the aerospace industry prefers to biofuel because some biofuels are often relatively primitive or, like palm oil, cause too much environmental damage. Instead, SAFs are produced from a variety of sustainable sources, including municipal solid wastes; cellulose waste from the forestry industry; used cooking oil; energy crops, including comelina, jatropha, halophytes, and algae; and non-biological fuels like waste gases from steel works.
> SAFs are attractive to the aerospace industry because they can address the problem of reducing carbon dioxide emissions immediately. Such fuels can be "dropped in" by simply being added to conventional fuels without the need for extensive changes to existing infrastructure."




# Energy

- making hydrogen more compact https://flip.it/4T-o-D “Fraunhofer researchers have presented a magnesium-based "Powerpaste" that stores hydrogen energy at 10 times the density of a lithium battery, offering hydrogen fuel cell vehicles the ability to travel further than gasoline-powered ones, and refuel in minutes.”

- https://flip.it/6CgIUL Moving from natural gas to hydrogen
> German firm Hydrogenious, says its tech can safely store, handle and transport hydrogen at low cost. That is important for so-called 'green' hydrogen - hydrogen made without fossil fuels - as it provides the means to link renewable energy production sites, like wind farms and solar power plants, to areas where the hydrogen is most needed.

> "Hydrogenious technology allows for the safe and efficient storage of hydrogen in a liquid carrier which is fully compatible with today’s infrastructure for liquid fuels. And, in terms of its potential, we really want to facilitate the large-scale implementation of green hydrogen infrastructure all over Europe, with a big target and vision to really decarbonise Europe, decarbonise mobility, decarbonise industry and therefore really contributing to our efforts against climate change,” says Daniel Teichmann, Hydrogenious' Founder & CEO."

# Consumption

Making wood transparent so it can be used for windows https://flip.it/MCurLt
> "The method involves brushing hydrogen peroxide over the surface of the wood, leaving it under a UV light to simulate natural sunlight, before soaking it in ethanol and filling the pores with a clear epoxy.

The resulting material is both lighter and stronger than glass and provides far better insulation than glass.

The researchers from the University of Maryland said the process alters a structural component of wood called lignin that prevents light from passing through the material.

The idea has been around for a couple of years but this latest technique is 

Not making large-scale objects. It's thin as a replacement for glass. 

Watch https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CAUN7jsxA14
[Read the academic paper](https://flip.it/qCe5nk)
Hold heat 5x better

Being done in a lab with small squares. But in the coming years. 


Glass bottles are recyclable, but heating them up needs lots of high-emissions energy. https://flip.it/dz5x5B
Encirc has successfully managed to make bottles using renewable biofuels which the manufacturer says have ultra-low carbon emissions.

The trial paints a “very bright and sustainable future” for the industry, says Fiacre O’Donnell, head of sustainability at Encirc’s parent company, Vidrala.

“We’re also looking into the development of hydrogen, and advancements in electric melting to truly discover the future of glass production. These ultra-low-CO2 containers we’re making are being produced for some of the biggest names in the drinks industry.”

Lettuce that can send emails
https://flip.it/QUEUA2
> Through nanotechnology, engineers at MIT in the US have transformed spinach into sensors capable of detecting explosive materials. These plants are then able to wirelessly relay this information back to the scientists.

When the spinach roots detect the presence of nitroaromatics in groundwater, a compound often found in explosives like landmines, the carbon nanotubes within the plant leaves emit a signal. This signal is then read by an infrared camera, sending an email alert to the scientists.

This experiment is part of a wider field of research which involves engineering electronic components and systems into plants. The technology is known as “plant nanobionics”, and is effectively the process of giving plants new abilities.

“Plants are very good analytical chemists,” explains Professor Michael Strano who led the research. “They have an extensive root network in the soil, are constantly sampling groundwater, and have a way to self-power the transport of that water up into the leaves.”

3D house printing with clay
https://flip.it/EIupuz 

# Waste

- plastic waste boat https://flip.it/f_e1O_ "Yvan Bourgon and his team have designed a yacht which collects plastic garbage from the ocean and then uses it as fuel. It is hoped that a prototype for this design can be launched in 2024. Bourgon has said that if 400 of the boats were to be made, they could clean up one third of the plastic debris in the oceans."

- reusing plastic to make stronger-than-concrete bricks https://flip.it/THmC.7

# More thoughts?
Feedback please feel to comment here or mail julian.harris+rfh@gmail.com 

# Now in email form!
This newsletter is part of the LinkedIn Newsletter pilot. If you'd like to get this in your inbox, I also share the newsletter on http://reasonsforhope.substack.com. 

# Postscript